readme.md, before:

# SqlViews

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
[![StyleCI][ico-styleci]][link-styleci]

A small package to help automate the creation and updating of MySQL views.

This package lets you store the query definition for every MySQL view you need within your Laravel codebase, and lets you edit the SQL query strings directly instead of using migration files. This is useful when:

  - You regularly create or update SQL views with real data, e.g. as part of a data analysis workflow.
  - You have a set of complex queries that would involve you basically writing out the raw query within a migration file anyway.


## Installation

Via Composer

``` bash
$ composer require stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
```

## Usage

The package includes a single console command that will create or update the SQL views in your database based on the files within your `database/views` directory. It will create a view for every `.sql` file it finds, using the filename as the view name and the contents as the query definition.

To use:
1. Place your query definitions within .sql files inside your `database/views` directory. You need 1 file per view. Do not include the "CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW" segment, just include the query definition itself.
2. Run the command with `php artisan updatesql`.


It will search the folder recursively, so you can organise your views into subfolders if you wish.

The packge comes with a tiny config file.




## Change log

Please see the [changelog](changelog.md) for more information on what has changed recently.


## Contributing

Please see [contributing.md](contributing.md) for details and a todolist.

## Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email author email instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Dave Mills][https://github.com/dave-mills]
- [Stats4SD][link-contributors]

## License

MIT license. Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views?style=flat-square

[ico-styleci]: https://github.styleci.io/repos/248978421/shield

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
[link-styleci]: https://github.styleci.io/repos/248978421
[link-author]: https://github.com/stats4sd
[link-contributors]: https://github.com/stats4sd

Commit message:

Updated readme.md Added further keys to the sqlviews config file. Updated ServiceProvider to check for config settings. Updated Command to check for config settings.

readme.md, after:

# SqlViews

[![Latest Version on Packagist][ico-version]][link-packagist]
[![Total Downloads][ico-downloads]][link-downloads]
[![StyleCI][ico-styleci]][link-styleci]

A small package to help automate the creation and updating of MySQL views.

This package lets you store the query definition for every MySQL view you need within your Laravel codebase, and lets you edit the SQL query strings directly instead of using migration files. This is useful when:

  - You regularly create or update SQL views with real data, e.g. as part of a data analysis workflow.
  - You have a set of complex queries that would involve you basically writing out the raw query within a migration file anyway.


## Installation

Via Composer

``` bash
$ composer require stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
```

## Usage

The package includes a single console command that will create or update the SQL views in your database based on the files within your `database/views` directory. It will create a view for every `.sql` file it finds, using the filename as the view name and the contents as the query definition.

To use:
1. Place your query definitions within .sql files inside your `database/views` directory. You need 1 file per view. Do not include the "CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW" segment, just include the query definition itself.
2. Run the command with `php artisan updatesql`.


It will search the folder recursively, so you can organise your views into subfolders if you wish.

The packge comes with a tiny config file.
```
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=sqlviews.config
```

To disable the automatic creation of either the `database/views` and/or `database/procedures` folder(s) you can add the following `.env` variables :-
```
SQL_VIEWS_REGISTER_VIEWS_FOLDER=false
SQL_VIEWS_REGISTER_PROCEDURES_FOLDER=false
```
Please note that disabling folder creation without a good understanding of this package will cause you issues.

## Change log

Please see the [changelog](changelog.md) for more information on what has changed recently.


## Contributing

Please see [contributing.md](contributing.md) for details and a todolist.

## Security

If you discover any security related issues, please email author email instead of using the issue tracker.

## Credits

- [Dave Mills][https://github.com/dave-mills]
- [Stats4SD][link-contributors]

## License

MIT license. Please see the [license file](license.md) for more information.

[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views?style=flat-square
[ico-downloads]: https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views?style=flat-square

[ico-styleci]: https://github.styleci.io/repos/248978421/shield

[link-packagist]: https://packagist.org/packages/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
[link-downloads]: https://packagist.org/packages/stats4sd/laravel-sql-views
[link-styleci]: https://github.styleci.io/repos/248978421
[link-author]: https://github.com/stats4sd
[link-contributors]: https://github.com/stats4sd
